feat: ✨ describe relationship between weeks, visits, and instruments (#224)
onlimit-study/dmp: supplemental/weeks-visits.qmd

---

> title: "Weeks, Visits, and REDCap Instruments in the Feasibility Study"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Weeks, visits, and REDCap instruments"
```

engine: python
---

> # How do weeks, visits, and REDCap instruments relate to each other in the feasibility study?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document explains how the study weeks, visits, and REDCap instruments relate to
each other within the feasibility study. The main study will have included many
of these details into the design of the REDCap.
```

Since the `title` is already provided, so don't need a top-level `#`.

The feasibility study for ON LiMiT is divided into three sections, or phases,
with a pre-phase section for screening and initial consent. The study is
conducted over a period of 52 weeks, with a number of study site visits and
dietician-led group sessions. The table below shows the relationship between the

> weeks, visits, and instruments used in the feasibility study.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
study weeks (not calendar weeks), visits, and instruments used in the feasibility study.
```

## Phases of the study

In this section we will describe the different phases of the study and how they
relate solely to the REDCap collected data. There are a number of other data
collection points that are not captured in REDCap, such as scans, blood tests,
diet compliance, and exercise data. These are not captured in REDCap and will be
described in a separate section.

### Pre-phase: The screening phase

> This is the weeks leading up to active participation in the study. This comprise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This phase is leading up to active participation in the study. This comprise
```

> of week -5 up to and including week 0 and this is where study site visits 1 to 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of study week -5 up to and including week 0 and this is where study site visits 1 to 4
```

Here you mention week 0 but it isn't in the table.

Author: There was no data collection in week 0, or so I thought, turns out the dieticians have moved things around after they designed REDCap... And not thought to update it before we went live.

takes place where the bulk of the demographic data is captured alongside a
number of questionnaires and other relevant data.

### Phase 1: The weight loss phase

> This is the first 12 weeks from 1-12 where study site visits 5 and 6 fall. In

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the first 12 study weeks from 1-12 where study site visits 5 and 6 fall. In
```

this phase the participants have two large visit days as well as five sessions
with dieticians. The challenge with the feasibility data is that the dieticians
have decided to group their meetings based on the phases, whereas the study site
visits are individual events with a clear naming based on the visit number.

There is a mismatch between the name of the instruments for the dietician-led
group sessions and the instrument names. The name the dieticians see on screen
is referencing weeks 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, and 18. The instrument names

> in REDCap are referencing weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, and 18.

Reviewer: So it's offset by 1 (mostly)? Can REDCap be matched with theirs? Or are the weeks actually off by a week?

Author: We can sort it in main, but for now the discrepancy stays as the instruments contain data.

The date field from the first dietician-led group session is used to determine
the start of the study for the individual participants. This can in turn be used
to determine the week number for all the instruments that do not have a week

> number associated with them.

Reviewer 2: Ah I see -- niiiiice 🚀

### Phase 2: The re-introduction of food phase

This phase is weeks 13-18 where normal food is slowly re-introduced. There are
two study visits (7 in week 16 and 8 in week 18), and five dietician-led group
sessions.

### Phase 3: The maintenance phase

This is weeks 19-52 for feasibility. There are two weeks where the participants
HbA1c is measured (weeks 30 and 42) and two study site visits (9 in week 51 and
10 in week 52). There are also four individual sessions with the dieticians. At
the end of the study (in week 52) the participants will have a final study site
visit where the same questionnaires and data are captured as in the pre-phase.

## Table of weeks, visits, and instruments

> In this section is shown the relationship between the weeks, visits, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section shows the relationship between the weeks, visits, and
```

instruments where the instruments have a relationship to a fixed week (or
weeks). The table is divided into three columns: Weeks, Visit, and Instrument
name. The Weeks column shows the week number in the study, the Visit column
shows the visit number, and the Instrument name column shows the name of the
instrument used in REDCap. Below is a table showing the instruments that are not

> tied to a specific week.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
weeks).
```

This isn't necessary, as you already describe it above.

  | Weeks | Visit | Instrument name                                        |
  | ----- | ----- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
  | W-5   | 0     | prscreening_telefoninterview_frste_kontakt             |
  | W-4   | 1     | besg_1_screening,                                      |
  |       |       | bedq (1. time)                                         |
  | W-3   | 2     | besoegsdag_2,                                          |

>   |       |       | was (1. time)                                          |

Reviewer 2: I've not seen this `was` before. Is this anything to do with `vas`?

Author: Yes - I'll get those sorted!

  | W-2   | 3     | besoegsdag_3,                                          |
  |       |       | was (2. time)                                          |

>   | W-1   | 4     | besoegsdag_4 ,                                         |

Reviewer: There's no week zero?

Author: There will be now. But in general I've only included weeks where data collection takes place (see comment about dieticians above).

  | W51   | 9     | besoegsdag_9                                           |
  | W52   | 10    | besgsdag_10_5f76 ,                                     |
  |       |       | was (6. time)                                          |
  |       |       | sociodemografiske_karakteristika_short                 |
  |       |       | diabetes_status (2. time)                              |
  |       |       | pittsburgh_sleep_quality_index_psqi (3. time)          |
  |       |       | physical_and_mental_health_sf12 (3. time)              |
  |       |       | european_quality_of_life_5_dimensions_eq5d5l (3. time) |
  |       |       | tobacco_and_nicotine_use (3. time)                     |
  |       |       | selfefficacy_for_nutrition_change_sefnc_week_52        |
  |       |       | item_bodily_distress_syndrome_checklist (3. time)      |
  |       |       | the_three_item_loneliness_scale_tils (3. time)         |
  |       |       | yale_food_addiction_scale_yfas (3. time)               |
  |       |       | social_support_for_eating_habits (3. time)             |
  |       |       | diabetes_distress_paid5_scale (3. time)                |

> ## Table of REDCap instruments that are not tied to a specific week or visit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Recurring REDCap instruments
```

Reviewer 2: Many of these instruments are indeed repeating instruments, but not all of them (`stamdata`, `individual_ditistsamtale_x`).

In this section is shown the REDCap instruments that are not tied to a specific

> week or visit. The table is divided into two columns: Instrument and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
week or visit, meaning they are collected throughout the study.
```

Description. The Instrument column shows the name of the instrument used in
REDCap, and the Description column shows a brief description of the instrument
as well as stating which weeks it may occur in, as well as which date fields it

> contains. These can then be used to calculate the week number later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These all include a "date collected", which can be linked to the week number.
```

This also means that all the other instruments must have a date collected column too.

Reviewer 2: Doesn't that depend on what time unit we want to use to organise the timeline? If we want to use `study_week`, then we just need to be able to calculate that for all rows. This can be done based on a date column or a mapping between forms and study weeks. So, for example, if we know that `bedq` is in W-4 then we don't need a date on it.

But it would still be nice to get the study week straight from REDCap.

>   | Instrument                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  | Instrument name                 | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
```

---
title: "Weeks, visits, and REDCap instruments"
engine: python
---

This document explains how the study weeks, visits, and REDCap instruments
relate to each other within the feasibility study. The main study will have

> included many of these details into the design of the REDCap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
included many of these details into the design of REDCap.
```

This phase is weeks 13-18 where normal food is slowly re-introduced. There are
two study visits (7 in week 16 and 8 in week 18), and five dietician-led group
sessions.

### Phase 3: The maintenance phase

This is weeks 19-52 for feasibility. There are two weeks where the participants
HbA1c is measured (weeks 30 and 42) and two study site visits (9 in week 51 and
10 in week 52). There are also four individual sessions with the dieticians. At
the end of the study (in week 52) the participants will have a final study site
visit where the same questionnaires and data are captured as in the pre-phase.

## Table of weeks, visits, and instruments

This section shows the relationship between the weeks, visits, and instruments
where the instruments have a relationship to a fixed study week (or weeks). The
numbering in brackets after the instrument name indicates that this instrument
is collected multiple times throughout the study. For instance (1. time) shows
that this is the visit where the instrument is completed the first time. REDCap
will automatically create a new instance of the instrument for each time it is
set to be used in the Event planning.

>   | Weeks | Visit | Instrument name                                        |

Reviewer: Can you add the Phase ID/name as a column too?

>   | Weeks | Visit | Instrument name                                        |

Reviewer: Can you create another column called like `Repetition times` or something similar? So that `Instrument name` directly maps to the actual name. And then move the `(1. time)` into the "repetition" column (as just a number)?

  | 52    | 10    | diabetes_status (2. time)                              |
  | 52    | 10    | pittsburgh_sleep_quality_index_psqi (3. time)          |
  | 52    | 10    | physical_and_mental_health_sf12 (3. time)              |
  | 52    | 10    | european_quality_of_life_5_dimensions_eq5d5l (3. time) |
  | 52    | 10    | tobacco_and_nicotine_use (3. time)                     |
  | 52    | 10    | selfefficacy_for_nutrition_change_sefnc_week_52        |
  | 52    | 10    | item_bodily_distress_syndrome_checklist (3. time)      |
  | 52    | 10    | the_three_item_loneliness_scale_tils (3. time)         |
  | 52    | 10    | yale_food_addiction_scale_yfas (3. time)               |
  | 52    | 10    | social_support_for_eating_habits (3. time)             |
  | 52    | 10    | diabetes_distress_paid5_scale (3. time)                |

## Recurring REDCap instruments

In this section is shown the REDCap instruments that are not tied to a specific
week or visit, meaning they are collected throughout the study. All of these
instruments have a manually entered date field that is used to calculate the
week number.

>   | Instrument                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: Can you add two new columns `start_study_week` and `end_study_week`, so that the week numbers are found in accessible columns rather than as text in a description?
